# Hotel-Booking-Demand

The group has selected the hotel booking demand dataset from Kaggle. In this dataset, there are 31 variables that describe the bookings of customers at resort and city hotels in Portugal between the 1st of July of 2015 and the 31st of August 2017. We will be looking at how these predictors play a role in behaviors that cause booking cancellation and other predictors that will allow customers to select better times to travel. We will be using descriptive analytics and machine learning algorithms to understand patterns and trends in this dataset that may lead to booking cancellations. Through the machine learning algorithms we would be aiming to create a model to predict if a guest will actually come. This can help a hotel to plan things like personel and food requirements.  Also hotels will have contingency plans in place for guests which the ML model is not very optimistic about. Maybe some hotels can also use such a model to offer more rooms than they have to make more money. This surely has an economic impact as it would make the hotels more profitable and efficient. The group found this interesting as each one of us have been to hotels in our life and would benefit the travelers as well as it would increase the inventory of rooms for them.

Studying the trends in this dataset will allow us to understand patterns, trends, and anomalies in the data. We can use the patterns to understand behaviors behind booking cancellation, customer satisfaction, best seasons to book, and more. We have used different machine learning models to assess the patterns behind booking cancellation. Our team believes that studying cancellation behavior in hotel guests will allow new insights into changes that need to be made in demand-management decisions that lead to overall increase in revenue. All plots and data tables can be referenced in the appendix below. 
